The blueprints are drafted, the workers are set.
It's time to build his church.
Our knees need to hit the ground in prayer before a shovel does.
Our hands need to be raised in worship before they swing a hand.
Let this church be more than a fellowship, more than a building.
Let this church be a house of gold.
That's all I've got.
I'm ready to jump into the message.
We're in the front line, the very beginning portion of a series that we started two weeks ago.
It's a little confusing time period because we had Snowpalooza 26.
You guys remember that?
There's still a little remnants every now and again out in the field.
There's a little pile of snow or something to remind us of days gone by and of cold winter times when Satan tried to freeze us from God, but praise God, we persevered.
We made it through.
We had a Friday night service that week and in that service, we kicked off a series that we're simply calling a house of prayer.
Now we paused last week.
We went back to the old series, but today,
We are moving back into a house of prayer.
Why is that important?
Because if we do not become a house of prayer, then little to nothing that we attempt beyond that will be successful.
Listen carefully, we can have the best speakers.
We can have the best worship team.
We can have the best children's ministry.
We can serve the greatest coffee.
We can have greeters that knock it out of the park.
They surpass those from Walmart.
I mean, we can have the best of everything.
But if we're not people of prayer, if we're just trying to do this by ourselves, if we're attempting it in our own ability, in our own efforts with our own talent, guess what?
Sooner than later, our talent
runs out.
Come on.
Jesus himself said it this way, my house shall be called a house of prayer.
Two weeks ago, when we had this Friday night service, I asked a very pertinent question, a vitally important question.
The question of the message that day was this, do I have to pray?
Do I have to?
Well, the answer really is no.
You don't have to pray, but you also don't have to eat.
You also don't have to drink anything.
You also don't have to breathe.
There's a lot of things you don't have to do, but it's beneficial if you do them.
Come on.
And what we learned in that message two weeks ago is that it's not a fact of do I have to pray, but am I willing to engage in the opportunity that God has given to me?
Am I willing to step into a conversation with the creator of the world?
Am I willing to step into a moment of conversation with God?
You see, prayer is not God demanding time from us.
Prayer is God offering Himself to us.
Come on.
Jesus, when He died on the cross,
The Bible says that the veil was torn and suddenly there was entrance into the holy of holies.
There was entrance into the presence of God.
No longer do we have to have a middleman that goes between us and God.
But we can walk boldly into the presence of God.
My goal of this series is that we will move from a people of just periodic
short-term, momentary prayer will move beyond just rub it up, dub, thanks for the grub.
Now I lay me down to sleep.
I pray the Lord my soul to keep prayer and we'll move into a place where prayer becomes a regular daily part of our lives.
In fact, the Bible says that we are to pray continuously.
Now, in our own minds, that seems impossible, right?
Because when we think prayer, we think closing our eyes and bellowing our heads and maybe kneeling or folding our hands or some posturing ourselves in some moments of reverence to God.
And we're like, how do we accomplish that?
When I've got a job, when I've got a family, when I have hobbies, when I have a day to attend to, how do I pray continuously?
How do I pray without ceasing?
Basically what that means is I leave the receiver off and I just spend time with God.
Do you remember, come on, those of you from my generation, those of you that had a phone cord connected to the wall that was long enough to reach to the back of the house and close the door so you could talk to your girl when you were in high school and mom and dad couldn't talk to you in that moment, but when you got done, when you hung up the phone and you walked out, they said, who was that?
Come on, some of you remember those days.
Some of you remember the moment where you left the phone off the receiver, and it sat there, and you just talked to one another, and you would say things like this, no, you hang up.
No, you hang up.
And finally, one of you would get sick and tired, and you would go, and you hang up the phone, and then you would answer for it the next day, right?
Praying without ceasing is that moment of leaving the phone
off the receiver and just spending time with God.
I remember when my daughter was in college, well, the truth but told she still does it to this day, but she'll call in the evenings and right now she calls, she works at a hospital in Springfield, she's an RN there and as she leaves the hospital and she makes her trek through numerous parking lots to get to her vehicle, she will call and just talk.
When she was in high school even college, there were moments she would be walking around the store.
She'd be shopping, but she just wanted mom or just wanted dad on the other side of the line.
She just wanted to be with us.
See, that's what God's asking of us today.
Will you just spend your day with me?
Will you make my house
What we're talking about here is it's not, let's make encounter church a house of prayer.
You see, that's the result of personal lives making themselves a house of prayer.
The Bible says that we are the temple of the Holy Spirit.
We are the house, the resident of the Holy Spirit.
We are to make his house a house of prayer.
and the result of we, his people, gathering together in our personal time, in corporate time, and spending time lifting him up and honoring him of making this house a house a prayer, suddenly this house becomes a house a prayer.
So I'm gonna spend the next five weeks.
We're gonna talk about numerous topics today.
We're going to simply talk about the what, the why, the how of prayer, of having a conversation with God.
Why?
Because we have free access to the creator of the world.
This isn't just a moment of obligation.
Well, now that I gave my heart and my life to Christ, I have to pray.
And if I don't pray, then somehow God's gonna smite me from heaven.
He's gonna take his God-sized thumb and press it down on the earth.
And I'm gonna go, so we feel guilty because we haven't spent time with God.
It's not a religious obligation, but rather it's an invitation.
It's a direct line of access to God.
So rather than asking the question, do I have to pray, the better question might be this.
Why wouldn't I when the door's already been open?
Why wouldn't I engage in conversation with the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords?
Why wouldn't I have conversation with the creator of the world?
Why wouldn't I have conversation with the one that spoke my life into existence, the one who knew me by name when I was in my mama's belly, the one that already knows every detail of my life, the one who was concerned about the details of my life, the one that wants to walk with me and promises that he will never leave me
Why wouldn't I want to have conversation with Him?
But sometimes we avoid prayer because if we're being honest, we feel like we just don't know how.
Would you agree with me today that prayer is important?
I'd venture to say that most of us, if not all of us in the room, would agree that prayer is important.
We believe that it matters
But if we are honest, many believers feel insecure about prayer.
We think things and wonder things like this.
Am I praying the right way?
We'll make statements like, I'm just not good at praying.
Do I have the right words?
Why does everything seem silent when I'm praying?
Can I just say if you've ever felt that way?
Welcome to the neighborhood.
because you are surrounded with a group of people that feel much the same as you.
In fact, I'm encouraged today because the disciples, the ones that walk side by side with Jesus for three and a half years, they also felt this way.
How do I know that?
Well, Luke chapter 11, verse one, which is our text, it says this, once Jesus was in a certain place praying, as he finished,
One of his disciples came to him and said, Lord, teach us to pray just as John taught his disciples.
Teach us to pray.
In other words, we don't know what we're doing.
We feel inadequate in this.
We understand that prayer is important.
We understand that it's a vital
connection with the Father.
We understand that we have this opportunity of prayer, but we feel like we fall short.
We feel like we're just not equipped.
Teach us to pray.
I don't know about you, but this gives me a little bit of release.
If the guys that walk side by side with Jesus struggled a bit with prayer,
And they come to him and ask Lord, teach us to pray.
Then we likewise need to turn to God and say, Lord, help us, help us in what we don't know.
They would simply say, how do we pray?
Maybe that's the question that you've asked yourselves as well.
If the church is going to be a house of prayer, if we're truly going to build his church,
then we need to have more than just good intentions.
We've gotta have purposeful action.
We've gotta be obedience in our relationship.
So for the next few moments, I wanna look at the what, the why, and the how of prayer.
Hang with me because I'm convinced that if we will truly engage in a life of prayer, listen carefully, then there's no stopping what God can and will do
through his church.
Come on.
Every great revival that's ever existed began with a person kneeling their heart in their life and calling upon God.
Why?
Because prayer
changes things.
That's why the disciples wanted Jesus to teach them to pray.
They watched it time and time again.
Those moments where Jesus separated himself, spent a moment in prayer crying out to the Father and then miracle after miracle after miracle occurred.
They realized it wasn't just because Jesus was super cool.
Come on.
But he had a connection with the Father.
So today I want to give you three truths of talking with God.
I want to encourage you to take really good notes today.
Truth number one is this, prayer is about relationship, not performance.
Come on, that should be a relief right there.
It's about relationship, not performance.
Now if we go to the book of Matthew, Matthew's account is quite interesting.
I love what he brings up here.
That's what he says.
He says, when you pray,
Come on, why is that important?
Why is that word when important?
Because it's assuming that you do.
It doesn't say if you pray, or when you choose to pray, but when you pray, so assuming that it's happening in your lives, he says, don't be like the hypocrites.
Come on, look at your neighbor and say, don't be a hypocrite.
Come on, put that in the chat today.
Don't be a hypocrite.
If you don't know how to smell hypocrite, just look it up real quick.
It'll be all right.
Don't be like the hypocrites who love to pray publicly on street corners and in the synagogues where everyone can see them.
I tell you the truth.
That is all the reward they will ever get.
Notice here, Jesus begins the statement by saying when, when you pray.
We discovered a couple of weeks ago that prayer is a vital part of our relationship.
It's a vital part of our connection with God.
If you remember two weeks ago, I made the statement that how would it work out in your husband and wife relationship or your dating relationship if you never talked to them?
That wouldn't go very well, would it?
No, you've got to have that relationship, that conversation, that engaging together to build and strengthen your relationship with your spouse or your girlfriend, your significant other.
Likewise, the same is much more true with God.
If we desire to have a deep and stronger balanced relationship with God, we must be a house of prayer.
There's power in prayer, James 5, 16.
When a believer believing person prays, come on, when a believing person prays, great things happen.
The word believing here is often translated as righteous, but I purposely didn't use that translation because many of us in the house, when we see the prayer, fervent prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective, we see righteous and we say, I'm out!
Right?
Because we see our lives and we think, there's no way that I'm righteous.
I messed up this morning.
But here's what I want you to understand.
The word believing here, literally in the original language, it means innocent, faultless, or here's what I want you to hear, acceptable to God.
So believe is a great translated word when a believing
person.
In other words, when an individual that has a relationship with Jesus Christ steps into this conversation with the Father, great things are the outcome.
They're powerful.
They're effective.
Remember, none of us are righteous on our own account, but oh, for the grace of God.
Because of Jesus, we are made right.
with the Father, the Bible says that if we confess our sins that God is faithful, He is just, He will forgive us of all of our sins.
Come on.
Well, what about all of our sins?
I don't really care what you bring up.
God can forgive that.
If we confess our sin,
God is faithful and just to forgive us our sin and cleanse us of all what?
Unrighteousness.
What does that mean?
That means suddenly we're put in right standing before God.
We are seen through a different lens.
Jesus is saying that don't be mistaken.
Your prayer is not a performance.
He says, don't be like the hypocrites.
He begins to point out those that are loudly praying in public for attention.
Understand this, Jesus is not condemning public prayer, but He's condemning prideful prayer.
Come on, grab ahold of that.
He's not saying you shouldn't pray in public.
We need these moments of encouraging one another.
We need these moments where we gather together and we pray with somebody at an altar.
We need moments where we gather together as a body of believers and we lift up the name of our heavenly Father.
We need those moments where we worship in one accord together.
We see that in the early church in the book of Acts.
They were gathered together.
They were calling upon God and what was happening.
The outpouring of the Holy Spirit was upon them.
Spirit began to do a work not because they were great leaders, not because they were great people, but because the presence of God was real as they gathered together.
Come on, that should make some people happy this morning.
Great difference between a prideful prayer and a public prayer.
What we're looking at here is a matter of the hearts or a matter of motives.
then Jesus takes a prayer relationship a step further in the book of Matthew.
He says this, but when you pray, there's that word again, there when you pray, it's assumed that you're praying.
He says, go away by yourself, shut the door behind you and pray to your father in privates.
Again, he's not condemning public prayer, but he's emphasizing the importance
of going off by yourself and just having that real personal conversation with God.
Perhaps that conversation is Lord, today really stinks.
God, this was an awful, awful day.
But Lord, I give it to you.
It's saying, Lord, I trust you even in the private moments of my life.
Maybe that prayers, Lord, thanks for today.
Man, what an outpouring of your presence I felt all day long as I had opportunity to engage with you.
I want to encourage you, pray not just for yourself, because sometimes we can get self-absorbed.
We're going to talk about that in just a minute.
But begin to pray for those outside of yourself.
Pray for those in your circle of influence.
Pray for those in our church, pray for those in our community, and let that extend to the leaders of our nation.
Did you know that it doesn't really matter what your political preference is?
We have been called by God to pray for those in authority over us, and we're in a very unresting moment as a nation.
We're just kind of some stupidity is happening amongst our nation, and we need God just to show up.
Can we pray for our nation?
In fact, can we pause just for a moment?
Can we pray?
Lord, I pray right now for our nation.
Lord, your word says that a nation divided amongst itself will crumble.
Lord, help us to be a nation under God.
Help us to be a nation united in you.
Lord, I pray for every leader of this nation from the top down.
Lord, that you will help us God just to help them, God.
to lean on you, to trust in you, to depend upon you.
Lord, I pray that you help us as well.
Lord, to set the example, to be the influence, to be the representative that you've called us to be.
Lord, help the words that we speak.
Lord, help the thoughts that we have, that the actions that we take.
Lord, help them to reflect you.
Lord, are not some
chaotic moment or poor choice.
But Lord, help us to be your representative in everything.
And Lord, give us a heart and a desire to seek you first and foremost in all the way due.
Lord, bless this nation.
Use this nation.
We love you, God, and we thank you.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
Our personal prayer with God, it's literally saying to God, my faith,
is in you and you alone.
Lord, I trust you more than anything.
Well, therefore, I want you to know me personally, and God, I wanna know you personally.
Well, Pastor, he already knows everything about me.
You said a moment ago that his word says that he knew me and my momma's belly, that he knows the number of hairs on my head, that he's concerned about every detail of my life.
He may know everything about you, but he wants to hear that from you.
Those of you that are parents, have you ever known something that your kid was doing?
But you wanted them to tell you?
Teenagers, we're smarter than you think.
I mean, there's moments where we know that we know that something's happening, but we just want them to come to the place.
Will they'll admit it and take responsibility?
where they trust us.
See, God's the same way.
The Bible says that we are to cast our anxieties upon Him, the things that really keep us awake at night, that we lay them at His feet, that we trust Him in that process.
Now, if we look at the book of John, he addresses this a little bit, a little bit different.
He gives us a relational formula.
He says this in John chapter 14, I tell you the truth.
Anyone who believes in me, Jesus is speaking here.
Anyone who believes in me will do the same works I have done.
And even greater works, we're gonna talk about that in week five of this series.
Why we can do greater works than Jesus, because that seems impossible.
I mean, Jesus raised the dead, come on.
Jesus spit in mud and somehow healed a guy's eyes.
That's incredible.
I mean, Jesus did some amazing, amazing things, but here he says, you're gonna do what I did and even greater things.
How is that possible?
Well, when Jesus left this earth, he sent us a comforter, an advocate, the Holy Spirit.
We're gonna talk about that week five.
He says, anyone who believes in me will do the same works I have done, even greater works, because I'm going to be with a father, verse 13, you can ask for anything, say anything,
in my name and I will do it.
Now, here we go.
That means we get up, we rub our Bible and suddenly Jesus comes out like a magic genie and we get three wishes.
Is that what he's saying here?
No, no, no, no.
Jesus is not a magic genie in a Bible.
Okay.
What he is saying is when our heart is aligned with his heart, when his will becomes our will, when his desire becomes our desire,
When we're walking in alignment and we're gonna talk about this in a moment, we can ask anything in his name and it will be done.
Why is this important?
Well, two things.
Number one, it helps us to put the ultimate authority in the right perspective.
Yes, the ultimate authority is Jesus, but then he passes that authority to us.
And the second thing we see is it helps us in the relationship to keep everything also in the correct order.
Not only do we know him,
But he knows us.
And truth be told, it's because we know him.
He already knows everything about us.
But it's because we know him.
I'm reminded of a story of a little boy that had a birthday party.
And the dad told the son, hey, bring all your friends over.
And they had already had part of the party.
And they were at a carnival.
So dad knew all the boys that were there.
And he said, you know what boys, whatever rides you want to ride, just come see me.
I'll hand you a ticket, you can ride it.
First question is, why would you write any ride at a carnival?
But that's okay.
That's another story for another time.
So the boys are going one after another.
They're riding all of these rides, but suddenly some rogue boy that the dad had never seen before walks up and he says, I need a ticket.
And the dad says, I don't know you.
He says, that's okay.
I know your son.
Come on, that's starting to sink in.
Some of you are here though.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
Do you know the son?
Do you know Jesus?
See, when we have a relationship with him, everything changes.
Then in verse nine, Jesus takes it a step further.
He says, pray like this, our Father in heaven.
Again, why is this important?
Because it establishes the relationship before God is our provider, before he is our healer, before he is our deliverer, before he is our sustainer, he is our father.
It's vitally important for us to grab a hold of.
Now the next thing that I want us to grab a hold of today is concerning the length of our prayer.
Sometimes we avoid prayer because we're afraid that we don't pray long enough.
And here you are.
You're in a group of people praying and you're laying hands on people.
You're praying and you're going and finally you're out of words and you're kind of looking around going, is somebody going to say in Jesus name, amen?
And you're not really even sure what to say.
So you just start going, mm-hmm, come on.
Come on.
Thank you, Jesus.
You've run out of words.
Come on, have you ever been there before?
I'll be honest, I am not one of those seven year prayers.
I'm like, Jesus doesn't need me to give him like the full edition.
He just needs readers digest.
And some of you are too young and you're like, what's readers digest?
There's short condensed version.
Look what Jesus says in Matthew chapter six.
When you pray, come on, are we seeing a track record here?
When you pray, it's presumed that you're praying.
He says, don't babble on.
Paul says, even before the meal, don't babble on, right, Paul?
Come on, somebody.
The food's getting cold, don't babble on.
Don't babble on and on as the Gentiles do.
Here's the problem, we're Gentiles.
They think their prayers are answered merely by repeating their words again and again.
And he says this, don't be like them.
I love that.
Don't be like them.
Prayer is not a matter of the length of the prayer.
It's not a matter of fancy words that you use.
It's all about Laney before God.
It's saying, Lord, I trust you above everything else.
Prayer is all about the relationship.
Not the performance.
The second truth that I see here is this, prayer aligns us with God's hearts.
Prayer aligns us with God's heart.
How many of you would agree with me that sometimes we can be self-centered?
Sometimes as a people, we can be a bit selfish.
Sometimes we can allow what's in it for me, mindset, take a hold of every portion
of our lives, yet Jesus' demonstration of prayer changes everything.
He says this in verse 10, may your kingdom come, may your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
May your kingdom come, he's talking to the Father, may your will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Then upon his crucifixion,
right before when he's praying in the garden, he says, not my will, but your will be done.
He's in this mode of allow my heart to come in alignment with who you are.
Allow your will to become my will.
Help me to see things from your perspective, not through my eyes, but through your eyes.
It's aligning ourselves with God.
It's getting a new perspective.
It's aligning and surrendering to the desire of God.
The notes in my fire Bible say this, to pray your will be done means that we truly desire that God's purposes, plans, and desires are fulfilled in our lives and in the lives of our families.
So how do we know the will of God?
That's one of the questions that I get asked a lot as a pastor.
How do I know the will of God?
Well, first off, I've got to spend time with Him.
I've got to make myself available for Him.
Well, Pastor, I just don't have time to pray.
You better make some time to pray.
Man, set aside time with God.
Just moments to be in His presence.
Allow him to pour into your life.
Allow him to give you a greater understanding.
Suddenly when we begin to pray, suddenly when we allow his will to become, I will not my will, but yours be done.
When we begin to do this, it moves our focus off of the chaotic situation in front of us and moves our focus onto the one that holds a solution in his hand.
Can I just tell you that's a whole lot easier perspective?
That's a whole lot less stress.
but one reason that many of us feel powerless isn't because God's not listening because he is.
It's because our hearts aren't aligned with his.
James 4 verse three says, even when you ask, you do not get it because your motives are all wrong.
We have a misaligned heart before God.
I'm gonna challenge you today
Just have a personal moment, say, Lord, am I in alignment with you?
You know, some prayer that I pray that I pray quite often is Lord, if there's anything in my life that is separating me from you.
God, if there's anything that's out of alignments, Lord, surface that in my mind and give me the courage and the boldness to deal with it.
Because sometimes he may surface it and then we justify it.
Oh, come on, come on, I got two people here, come on.
That's all I need, I just need two.
We're two or more agree upon any one thing.
Come on, this is scriptural right now.
I don't need the rest of y'all.
I got these guys right here.
Well, look at this.
When we allow God to begin to speak into our lives, when we allow Him to surface those things in our lives, when we begin to deal with them under His strength and His power, suddenly He shifts the alignment, suddenly things begin to function better because it's the right fit.
My wife the other day, she was having some neck issues.
Her neck was really hurting her.
And by the way, I wasn't the pain in her neck.
She had a pain in her neck just for clarification there, helping you understand.
She had a pain in her neck and she was sitting there all since she turned and her lower back popped and her neck stopped hurting.
When things are in alignments, come on.
When our spiritual life is in alignments,
There's a connection.
Things begin to work so much better.
But now Jesus goes on a little bit more in verse 12.
He begins to pry into, dig into our lives a bit.
And he says this, and forgive us our sins.
Come on, we all like that, don't we?
Oh, we love when we get forgiveness.
When we mess anybody in the house, anybody online, you guys ever mess up?
Do you like it when someone says, man, I forgive you?
But look at this, he goes on to say this, and forgive us our sins as we have forgiven those who sinned against us.
Wow.
Lord forgive me just as I forgave Johnny.
God goes, are you sure about that?
Unforgiveness can quickly clog the pipeline of our prayer.
Why?
Because it twists and it distorts the drive of our heart.
Jesus takes us a step further in verse 14 and 15.
He says, if you forgive those who sin against you, your heavenly Father will forgive you.
But why did he have to put that there?
But if you refuse to forgive others, your Father will not forgive
Your sins.
Do you see this?
If you refuse, why is that the case?
Well, let's answer this.
Why do we often refuse to forgive?
It hurts.
There's bitterness.
There's frustration.
There's disappointments.
The list goes on and on.
But I think it goes deeper than that.
I think sometimes it's because we have a misalignment.
Yeah, they've done us wrong.
They've messed up, but so have we.
They've done things they shouldn't have done, but so have we.
And God says, Heavenly Father will forgive you just as you have forgiven them.
But if you refuse, I'm going to challenge you to do a heart examine.
Ezekiel says that he'll take out the old stony stubborn heart and give you a tender, responsive heart.
Some of us need to pray for a tender, responsive hearts.
Because how we're responding is anything but tender.
Come on.
Truth number three, I gotta move quickly.
Prayer is constantly and confidently asking.
Prayer is constantly and confidently
asking God desires an honest, transparent heart that comes as we talked about a couple weeks ago, boldly into his throne room.
Look what it says in Luke chapter 11.
And so I tell you, again, Jesus is speaking, keep on asking and you will receive what you ask for.
Keep on seeking and you will find.
Keep on knocking and the door will be open to you for everyone who asks receives, everyone who seeks
finds and everyone who knocks the door will be open.
The original language literally means to keep asking, to keep seeking, to keep knocking.
I want you to understand prayer is more than just a one-time conversation with God.
It's an ongoing pursuit.
It's an ongoing relationship.
It's the phone is off the receiver.
We're hanging out together.
But here's what I want to understand.
You don't have to beg God.
I've heard people pray before, well, God, we beg you right now.
No, you don't need to do that.
We're going to find out in just a second of the goodness of God.
But we are called by Jesus here to be persistent, to allow our faith to grow, to allow our hearts to come into alignments.
Sometimes the issue or the concern comes to mind.
So rather than worrying about it, why not bring it to the feet of the Father?
The Bible tells us he's concerned about the details.
He sees our tears.
He hears our cries.
He desires to meet us right where we are.
And when we pray, he hears us and he meets us.
As we step into his throne room, things begin to change.
Now verse 11 and 12 talk about
that God, the fact that God is a good father.
13 illustrates that and says, so, if you're sinful people, know how to give good gifts to your children.
How much more will your Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask?
Here's what I know.
The greatest answer to prayer is not a quick fix.
The greatest answer to prayer is not even changing the circumstance.
It's God's presence, God's power through the Holy Spirit.
We sing it this morning.
He's the fourth man in the fire.
There's moments we're right in the middle of that storm.
We're right in the middle of that fire.
We're right in the middle of that chaos.
And really our prayer is Lord, get me.
It says, do you trust me?
Do you trust me?
Do you sometimes God changes the situation, but sometimes God strengthens the believer.
Sometimes it's a little of both.
But however you look at it, I want you to understand today, prayer works.
So it's not for the spiritual elite, it's not for those that have a catalog of fancy words.
Prayer is about a faithful father who invites his children to come close to him, to engage in a relationship, to get to know him more, to allow our hearts to be aligned with him.
So let me ask you a question today.
Do you desire to be a house of prayer or do you just see prayer as importance?
I will challenge you.
Move beyond just a belief system.
We can have a belief system all day long.
We can know the Word of God front and back, but that's not gonna do you any good unless you give it application.
Did you know that Satan even knows the Word of God?
I know that because when Jesus was tempted in the desert, what happened?
Satan kept saying it is written.
Jesus would come back, oh, it's also written.
It's one thing to know the Word of God.
It's another thing to apply the Word of God.
I'm gonna encourage you as we move forward in this series.
Make a shift between just believing something and now doing.
Believing that it's important to pray
and becoming a house of prayer.
Amen?
Let's pray.
Lord, I pray right now for every person in this room.
Lord, I just sense in my heart right now that there are those here.
They hear this message and they agree with the message, but there's still doubting that you want to have conversation, much less relationship.
What I pray right now that you will show up, so that you will help them to know without a doubt that you love.
What your word tells us in John 3, 16, for you so love the world.
And we're part of that world.
We know that you love us.
The good, the bad, the ugly of ourselves.
So Lord, we offer our lives to you.
offer this house to you.
Speak across this room right now in Jesus' name.